hey guys and welcome back to crouton
crackerjacks today I'm going to show you
how to make delicious and moist turkey
meatloaf now if you guys have had turkey
meatloaf before you might have found
that it's kind of dry and bland not very
appetizing at all this meatloaf here is
absolutely fantastic its moist its juicy
it doesn't have the greasy in heavy
dense feeling that a traditional beef
meatloaf has if you've never tried this
with turkey before definitely give this
a try and it's super easy to make up so
let's get started I'm going to start off
using 1 pound of ground turkey here now
you can do this recipe with beef as well
that's perfectly fine
I'm just showing you how to do a turkey
meatloaf here I'm going to add in 2/3 of
a cup of breadcrumbs as well as 2
tablespoons of dried minced onion flakes
you could use chopped real lemons if you
want to I'm just doing this quick and
easy so I'm using the mince stuff then
I'm going to add in 3/4 of a cup of
whole milk and also use 2% or 1% that's
fine this is what's going to keep our
meatloaf nice and moist next I'm going
to take one egg and beat that up the
reason I pretty beat this is because
when we go to mix this together you want
to be careful with the meat you don't
want to over mix it because that's going
to give you a really dense meatloaf so
I'm just going to add that into my mix
into my bowl I'm also going to add in
one teaspoon of soy sauce that's
completely optional it does make a
difference however I'm going to use some
seasoned pepper here and season this up
maybe half a teaspoon or so and I'm also
going to use some fresh cracked black
pepper
now using my hands I'm just going to
gently start folding these ingredients
together now you don't want to go crazy
with a spoon or get out an electric
mixer don't do me that stuff that's
going to make your meatloaf dense and
it's going to make it kind of pasty you
want to keep your ground turkey as whole
as possible and turkey as its naturally
is is really kind of a soft knee and you
don't want to break up that grind so be
careful and gentle with this mixture
just fold it over on itself and press it
down
don't mix this any more than you have to
this is also why I pre beat the egg so
that way we don't have to mix it in
there and you know mix this mixture to
death
you just want to mix this until
everything is incorporated
now I've just got a standard cookie
sheet here and I'm going to go ahead and
line it with a piece of foil the reason
I use the foil on there is for a easy
cleanup
I'll have to do is take the meat loaf
off of it or the foil away the cookie
sheet is you know nice and clean doesn't
need to be washed so I'm just going to
take my meat mixture and put that out
onto the foil and now I'm going to start
shaping this into a loaf if you will air
quotes there I don't use a loaf pan for
my meat loaf it I find it takes really
long time to cook meat loaf that way and
I don't want this in the oven for a long
time so I'm going to Pat this out until
it is about maybe an inch and a half
thick or so and I'm going to try and get
this into a rectangular shape and then
I'm going to slightly press down a
little divot in the center don't go
overboard with this just you want to
make a very shallow little ditch in the
center and that's where our sauce is
going to go now for the sauce on top I
just like a ketchup based sauce I've got
1/3 of a cup of ketchup in here I'm
going to add in two tablespoons of brown
sugar and I'm going to guesstimate about
a tablespoon or so of prepared yellow
mustard using a spoon I'm just going to
mix this mixture up now if you like a
brown gravy brown sauce on yours
you know go ahead and make your favorite
sauce on top this is what my favorite is
so yeah this is what I'm going to use
but once I get that mixed together I'm
going to go ahead and put that on top of
my meatloaf I'm just gonna place it
right in the ditch
be sure to get all that sauce
deliciousness out with the bulb and then
using a spoon I'm just going to coat the
entire top of my meatloaf here now the
other nice thing about cooking in
meatloaf like this as opposed to in a
loaf pan is that each piece every bite
that you get of meatloaf will have a
little bit of your sauce on it I find
when you make meatloaf in a loaf pan
it's just it's short on sauce and I like
sauce on my meatloaf so but once you get
that on there then you want to go ahead
and put this into a preheated 350 degree
oven and you want to bake this for
between 40 and 45 minutes or so it is
best to use a thermometer if you have
one you want to cook it to an internal
temperature of 160 degrees if you don't
have a thermometer go ahead and cut into
it make sure that it is no longer pink
inside the juices are running clear then
you want to let your meatloaf rest for
about ten minutes before you cut into it
that again will keep your meatloaf nice
and juicy and then when you are ready to
serve it go ahead and slice it into
slices and then you can go ahead and
serve this up and you can see how nice
and juicy this month meatloaf is it is
not dry by any means that milk in there
really helps to keep it moist it's an
all-around basic and versatile recipe
from here you can add whatever
ingredients that you like if you want to
add peppers to this and carrots and all
that other jazz vegetables to your
meatloaf I know some people like that do
that with your own meatloaf but this is
just how I like mine so there you go
that's how you make turkey meatloaf I
hope you guys enjoy if you did be sure
to give this video a thumbs up I would
greatly appreciate it subscribe for more
deliciousness and keep up to date on all
my latest videos thanks so much for
watching and we will see you next time